why ai is good, but bad

you've all heard of ai. you've all used ai. chatgpt, gemini, claude, deepseek etc. even stuff like kimi or granite im sure. anyways, ive seen a scarily increasing trend in people, my friends, and.. myself.

ai is great and all, like it helps you in so much stuff. in muns, it helps in research, it helps in one-offs that you dont really care about but you do so "just ask chatgpt bro", it helps in identifying that "one 90s breakout style game i swear" and so much more

this so much more is for random stuff. it does really, really good things as well like catchig breast cancer before its too late, helping in scientific discoveries etc.

also some bad stuff like deepfakes and stuff but thats not why im here today. im here to talk about, what i call the "zombai epedemic" (for lack of a better name smh)

zombai for zombie + ai. these are people who chatgpt everything. (this is not limited to chatgpt, it could be any other genai aswell) not stuff like "yo hows this essay" or "yo gpt write me a story" or "yo g do my hw". they ask chatgpt for stuff like the moon cycle, the best company to invest in, the fucking day of the week. if you do that last one, you're down bad. this is somehow worse than those people who chatgpt prompts to again put into a music generating ai that makes music based ON THOSE FUCKING PROMPTS LIKE BRO HOW CAN YOU BE WORSE

while im not that zombai, i am.. seeing a concerning amount of "define this for me" instead of googling (wow remember when that was the same as this? wow like this is just a cycle? damn ok) the answer or going to wikipedia.

so this is part blog part "dont PLEASE DONT DO IT" (psa) and the psa part is:

Please, if you see these patterns in yourself or someone you know, CHANGE IT. Be like how you were, just 6 (wait 6 omg time goes fast) years ago. you could, and you CAN NOW. I'm going to do the same. #healzombais (#bringbackhastagsastagsnotjustintumblrandshittyyoutubeshorts)

btw ths thing about "hows this essay" is fine, if you write it FULLY and then ask it for inputs. im going to do the same for this! just remember: moderation is key.